fix: added example defining websocket rules with oathkeeper. Closes #896 (#768)
ory/docs: docs/oathkeeper/guides/websockets.mdx

        - PATCH
        - DELETE
      allowed_headers:
        - Authorization
        - Content-Type
      exposed_headers:
        - Content-Type
      allow_credentials: true
      debug: true

errors:
  fallback:
    - json

  handlers:
    redirect:
      enabled: true
      config:
        to: http://127.0.0.1:4455/login
        when:
          - error:
              - unauthorized
              - forbidden
            request:
              header:
                accept:
                  - text/html
    json:
      enabled: true
      config:
        verbose: true

access_rules:
  matching_strategy: glob
  repositories:
    - file:///etc/config/oathkeeper/access-rules.yml

authenticators:
  anonymous:
    enabled: true
    config:
      subject: guest

  cookie_session:
    enabled: true
    config:
      check_session_url: http://kratos:4433/sessions/whoami
      preserve_path: true
      extra_from: '@this'
      subject_from: 'identity.id'
      only:
        - ory_kratos_session

  noop:
    enabled: true

authorizers:
  allow:
    enabled: true

mutators:
  noop:
    enabled: true
```

3. Create `oathkeeper/access-rules.yml` with the following content:

> ```yaml

Reviewer: Can you load these code snippets from the filesystem? Similar to what you have done with the other code samples?

````
 ```mdx-code-block title="ws/index.html"
 import index from '!!raw-loader!../../../code-examples/oathkeeper/ws/index.html'
 <CodeBlock language="html">{index}</CodeBlock>
 ```
````

Author: I can. BTW, do you know how can I use `${useLatestRelease}` hook with files on the filesystem? Or how can I update Ory services automatically? The reason is that right now there's no value to adding tests for current examples because they'll be on the same version since I pinned them to the latest release at the moment. In that case, I can't prove that everything works fine for the next release and we won't know if something is broken in examples.

---
id: ory-oathkeeper-proxying-websockets

> title: Defining websockets rules with oathkeeper

Reviewer 2: We might even want to drop the oathkeeper? Should be obvious that this is an oathkeeper document.

---

import { useLatestRelease } from '@site/src/hooks'
import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock'

This guide shows you how you can use Ory Oathkeeper with WebSockets.

> :::note
> Oathkeeper authenticates cookies only for the first connections.
> :::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:::tip
Websockets bypass Oathkeeper after the first request and thus Oathkeeper only validates cookies once. It is up to your service to ensure that websocket connections expire within a reasonable time frame to ensure the session cookie is still active and valid.
:::
```

Let's create a simple echo WebSocket service that sends back an
accepted message. We'll use Go, Gin to build our application,
and Ory Kratos to handle user login/signup and verification flows.

## Installing Ory Kratos and Ory Oathkeeper

You can create any directory for the experiments and create `docker-compose.yml` file with the following content

> <CodeBlock className="language-yaml">{`version: "3.7"

Reviewer 4: I meant `<CodeBlock>` vs the standard method of 3x `

> <CodeBlock className="language-yaml">{`version: "3.7"

Author: With <CodeBlock> component its better to track version changes and use hooks like {useLatestRelease} to keep the version of the product up-to-dated

  kratos:
    image: oryd/kratos:${useLatestRelease('kratos')}
    links:
      - postgres-kratos:postgres-kratos
    environment:
      - DSN=postgres://kratos:secret@postgres-kratos:5432/kratos?sslmode=disable&max_conns=20&max_idle_conns=4
    ports:
      - '4433:4433'
      - '4434:4434'
    volumes:
      - type: bind
        source: ./kratos
        target: /etc/config/kratos
    networks:
      - intranet
    command: serve -c /etc/config/kratos/kratos.yml --dev --watch-courier
  kratos-selfservice-ui-node:
    image: oryd/kratos-selfservice-ui-node:latest
    environment:
      - KRATOS_PUBLIC_URL=http://kratos:4433/
      - KRATOS_BROWSER_URL=http://127.0.0.1:4433/
    networks:
      - intranet
    ports:
      - "4455:3000"
    restart: on-failure
  mailslurper:
    image: oryd/mailslurper:latest-smtps
    ports:
      - '4436:4436'
      - '4437:4437'
    networks:
      - intranet
networks:
  intranet:`}</CodeBlock>

This example uses the following network architecture

- 4433 port is a public ("Browser") API of Ory Kratos
- 4434 is an admin API of Ory Kratos
- 4455 is a port of the User Interface implemented by self-service-ui
- 8080 is a port of Ory Oathkeeper

> The rest ports or services will be available only inside the internal network.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Other ports and services are available only in the internal network.
```

> ## Configuring Ory Oathkeeper and Ory Kratos

Reviewer 4: You're describing steps here. Maybe it'd be a good idea to put this in an ordered list structure? You could get rid of "and then's", etc. this way and focus on describing the steps users should take.

Author: List structures have rendering issues when mixed with configuration blocks.

Reviewer 4: If you're having problems implementing that, maybe have a look at my PR? I use codeblocks in lists here and I didn't really have any problems with rendering. 

https://github.com/ory/docs/pull/779

              - forbidden
            request:
              header:
                accept:
                  - text/html
    json:
      enabled: true
      config:
        verbose: true

access_rules:
  matching_strategy: glob
  repositories:
    - file:///etc/config/oathkeeper/access-rules.yml

authenticators:
  anonymous:
    enabled: true
    config:
      subject: guest

  cookie_session:
    enabled: true
    config:
      check_session_url: http://kratos:4433/sessions/whoami
      preserve_path: true
      extra_from: "@this"
      subject_from: "identity.id"
      only:
        - ory_kratos_session

  noop:
    enabled: true

authorizers:
  allow:
    enabled: true

mutators:
  noop:
    enabled: true
```

and `oathkeeper/access-rules.yml` with the following content

```yaml
-
  id: "ws:protected"
  upstream:
    preserve_host: true
    url: "http://ws:8080"
  match:
    url: "http://127.0.0.1:8080/<**>"
    methods:
      - GET
      - POST
  authenticators:
    - handler: cookie_session
  mutators:
    - handler: noop
  authorizer:
    handler: allow
  errors:
    - handler: redirect
      config:
        to: http://127.0.0.1:4455/login
```

> This configuration of oathkeeper uses cookie authenticator against Ory Kratos and proxies only authenticated requests to `http://ws:8080` upstream. The ws hostname is a hostname of the websocket service that we'll create right now.

Reviewer 3: Just add here that `ws:8080` is resolved through the docker network. If you aren't deploying your application within docker, this would just be your localhost IP.

Otherwise we will get people confused that do not know or understand docker or its networks :sweat_smile:

> This configuration of oathkeeper uses cookie authenticator against Ory Kratos and proxies only authenticated requests to `http://ws:8080` upstream. The `ws` hostname is resolved through the docker network. If you aren't deploying your application within docker, this would just be your localhost IP.

Reviewer 4: "Docker" is a proper name, please capitalize it accordingly.

## Websocket service

> Let's create a folder `ws` and create our websocket service using Go and Gin framework. Create `ws/main.go` file with the following content

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Let's create a folder `ws` and create our websocket service using Go and Gin framework. Create `ws/main.go` file with the following content:
```
+ WebSocket

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"

	"github.com/gin-gonic/gin"
	"github.com/gorilla/websocket"
)

func main() {

	r := gin.Default()
	r.LoadHTMLFiles("index.html")

	r.GET("/", func(c *gin.Context) {
		c.HTML(200, "index.html", nil)
		return
	})

	r.GET("/ws", func(c *gin.Context) {
		var wsupgrader = websocket.Upgrader{
			ReadBufferSize:  1024,
			WriteBufferSize: 1024,
		}
		conn, err := wsupgrader.Upgrade(c.Writer, c.Request, nil)
		if err != nil {
			fmt.Printf("Failed to set websocket upgrade: %+v\n", err)
			return
		}

		for {
			t, msg, err := conn.ReadMessage()
			if err != nil {
				break
			}
			conn.WriteMessage(t, msg)
		}
		return
	})

	r.Run(":8080")
}

```

> Then we need to initialize go modules by running the following commands

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Then we need to initialize go modules by running the following commands:
```

```shell
cd ws
go mod init ws
go mod tidy
```

> Let's add our simple frontend application. Create `ws/index.html` file with the following content

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Let's add our simple frontend application. Create `ws/index.html` file with the following content:
```

</head>

<body>
<h3>WebSocket Go</h3>
<pre id="output"></pre>

<script>
    url = 'ws://127.0.0.1:8080/ws';
    c = new WebSocket(url);

    send = function(data){
        $("#output").append((new Date())+ " ==> "+data+"\n")
        c.send(data)
    }

    c.onmessage = function(msg){
        $("#output").append((new Date())+ " <== "+msg.data+"\n")
        console.log(msg)
    }

    c.onopen = function(){
        setInterval(
            function(){ send("ping") }
            , 1000 )
    }
</script>

</body>
</html>
```

and `ws/Dockerfile` with the following content

```
FROM golang as builder

RUN mkdir /build

ADD . /build

WORKDIR /build
RUN GOOS=linux GOARCH=amd64 go build -o ws main.go

FROM alpine
EXPOSE 8090

COPY --from=builder /build/ws /ws
COPY index.html /index.html
ENTRYPOINT ["/ws"]
```
As a final step we need to add our `ws` service to the `docker-compose.yml`

```yaml
services:
...
  ws:
    build:
      context: "ws"
    networks:
      - intranet
...
```

## Testing

We can simply run `docker-compose up` wait for services to be ready and

- Open `http://127.0.0.1:4455`
- Create a new account
- Open `http://127.0.0.1:8080`

> 

Reviewer 4: Again, steps -> ordered list

---

> id: ory-oathkeeper-proxying-websockets

Reviewer 4: I don't think we need such a long doc. ID. This should be enough: 
```suggestion
id: proxying-websockets
```

    networks:
      - intranet
    ports:
      - "4455:3000"
    restart: on-failure
  mailslurper:
    image: oryd/mailslurper:latest-smtps
    ports:
      - '4436:4436'
      - '4437:4437'
    networks:
      - intranet
networks:
  intranet:`}</CodeBlock>

This example uses the following network architecture:

- `4433` port is a public ("Browser") API of Ory Kratos
- `4434` is an admin API of Ory Kratos
- `4455` is a port of the User Interface implemented by self-service-ui
- `8080` is a port of Ory Oathkeeper

Other ports and services are available only in the internal network.

## Configuring Ory Oathkeeper and Ory Kratos

1. Let's create a `kratos` folder and fetch configuration files

<CodeBlock className="language-shell">{`mkdir kratos
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ory/kratos/${useLatestRelease('kratos')}/contrib/quickstart/kratos/email-password/identity.schema.json -O kratos/identity.schema.json
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ory/kratos/${useLatestRelease('kratos')}/contrib/quickstart/kratos/email-password/kratos.yml -O kratos/kratos.yml`}</CodeBlock>

2. Create `oathkeeper` folder and `oathkeeper/oathkeeper.yml` with the following content:

> ```yaml

Reviewer: Should we move these code snippets to files in the code-examples directory? https://github.com/ory/docs/tree/master/code-examples

That would allow us to also run some tests against it!

Reviewer: All the other examples we have created are tested continously and ensure that the things we write in the docs actually work. Broken examples are the #1 frustration for developers!

I am fine to merge this, but let's not make this a "merge and forget" thing. If you link a follow up with description & assignee I am fine to merge this as it is now

Reviewer 2: Fair point. I will talk to Andrew and see if he can add tests soon or if we should track it for later.

Author: I moved everything to `code-examples` and it works fine without any issues. I added test case for unauthenticated requests using Go. Do I need to use a playwright to write tests against the example?

        - DELETE
      allowed_headers:
        - Authorization
        - Content-Type
      exposed_headers:
        - Content-Type
      allow_credentials: true
      debug: true

errors:
  fallback:
    - json

  handlers:
    redirect:
      enabled: true
      config:
        to: http://127.0.0.1:4455/login
        when:
          -
            error:
              - unauthorized
              - forbidden
            request:
              header:
                accept:
                  - text/html
    json:
      enabled: true
      config:
        verbose: true

access_rules:
  matching_strategy: glob
  repositories:
    - file:///etc/config/oathkeeper/access-rules.yml

authenticators:
  anonymous:
    enabled: true
    config:
      subject: guest

  cookie_session:
    enabled: true
    config:
      check_session_url: http://kratos:4433/sessions/whoami
      preserve_path: true
      extra_from: "@this"
      subject_from: "identity.id"
      only:
        - ory_kratos_session

  noop:
    enabled: true

authorizers:
  allow:
    enabled: true

mutators:
  noop:
    enabled: true
```

3. Create `oathkeeper/access-rules.yml` with the following content

```yaml

> -

Reviewer 4: should this `-` be here?

Author: Yes. That's the configuration of `access-rules.yml` and it has an array of elements; hence we need to have this `-` sign.

```shell
cd ws
go mod init ws
go mod tidy
```

3. Create `ws/index.html` file with the following content:

```html
<html>
<head>
    <script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-2.1.1.min.js"></script>
</head>

<body>
<h3>WebSocket Go</h3>
<pre id="output"></pre>

<script>
    url = 'ws://127.0.0.1:8080/ws';
    c = new WebSocket(url);

    send = function(data){
        $("#output").append((new Date())+ " ==> "+data+"\n")
        c.send(data)
    }

    c.onmessage = function(msg){
        $("#output").append((new Date())+ " <== "+msg.data+"\n")
        console.log(msg)
    }

    c.onopen = function(){
        setInterval(
            function(){ send("ping") }
            , 1000 )
    }
</script>

</body>
</html>
```

4. Create `ws/Dockerfile` with the following content

```
FROM golang as builder

RUN mkdir /build

ADD . /build

WORKDIR /build
RUN GOOS=linux GOARCH=amd64 go build -o ws main.go

FROM alpine
EXPOSE 8090

COPY --from=builder /build/ws /ws
COPY index.html /index.html
ENTRYPOINT ["/ws"]
```
5. We need to add our `ws` service to the `docker-compose.yml`

```yaml
services:
...
  ws:
    build:
      context: "ws"
    networks:
      - intranet
...
```

## Testing

> We can simply run `docker-compose up` wait for services to be ready and

Reviewer 4: There are 3 actions in this sentence and no punctuation at all - hurts my eyes :D

1. Open `http://127.0.0.1:4455`
2. Create a new account

> 3. Open `http://127.0.0.1:8080`

Reviewer 4: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/scannable-content/lists#:~:text=with%20lowercase%20words.-,Punctuation,headings%2C%20subheadings%2C%20or%20strings.
